# 10/22 Meeting

* *1.11 Propositions as types*
  * Standard treatment of Curry-Howard isomorphism
  * The example of building a proof term with holes works almost identically to Agda's hole-based programming, so Agda might be better suited for formalization
* *1.12 Identity Types*
  * Standard treatment of identity types, but we are starting to interpret equalities homotopically
  * A value of type $a =_A b$ is thought of as a *path* from $a$ to $b$ in the *space* $A$ up to homotopy (stretching, shrinking, but not breaking). The constructor $\text{refl}_a : a =_A a$ can be thought of as the stationary path, which stays at $a$ and does not travel to any other point.
  * The path induction principle says that values of a type family $C$ depending on $\Sigma_{x, y : A} x =_A y$ is generated by values at stationary paths, $\prod_{x : A} C(x, x, \text{refl}_a)$. The homotopical intuition is that $\Sigma_{x, y : A} x =_A y$ is the type of paths (up to homotopy) with variable endpoints, so any path with endpoints $(a, b, p)$ can be "shrunk" down along $p$ to the stationary path $(a, a, \text{refl}_a)$.
  * The based path induction principle is an equivalent formulation of the path induction principle with extra requirement that *one* of the endpoints of all paths is fixed. It's not immediately obvious that these are equivalent, though it's straightforward to get path induction from based path induction by instantiating one of the endpoints and then applying based path induction directly. In the other direction, you have to show that all instances of based path induction are simultaneously derivable.
  * Path induction and based path induction don't exclude the possibility of rich homotopy structure in types. If we fix *both* endpoints, we can't apply either principle, so we can't, for example, derive axiom K, which says in essence that all proofs of equality are $\text{refl}$'s. The example the authors give is when your type "looks" like the punctured disk, in which case the path with starts at some point and wraps around the puncture cannot be continuously deformed to the stationary path.
  * There was a discussion in the meeting about what these types actually look like. I think this is where we need to drop any topological preconceptions. "Set-like" types like $\mathbb N$ will have the structure of isolated points with $\text{refl}$ paths and nothing else. We also don't what to accidentally assume that we're always working in a connected space.
  * It's worth noting that in the appendix section A.3.2 on the definition of the circle, there is a constructor for a proof of an identity type that is not $\text{refl}$. This is what will give the type nontrivial homotopical structure.