# 11/5 Notes

* *2.1: Types are higher groupoids*
  * *RECAP*
    * a groupoid is a category in which all arrows have inverses.
    * a strict $0$-category is a set, and a strict $(n + 1)$-category is a category in which $\hom$-sets are $n$-categories. The canonical strict 2-category is $\mathbf{Cat}$, the category of (small) categories with functors as arrows, and where each $\hom$-set is a functor category with natural transformations as arrows. Taking the limit of this, we get $\infty$-categories. These are strict because equations and coherences hold on the nose.
  * I messed up a description of what makes weak $n$-categories weak during the meeting. Two $m$-cells (in essence, $m$-dimensional arrows) $\alpha$ and $\beta$ can be composed at any level $p$ where $p < m$ if $\mathsf{dom}^{m - p}(\alpha) = \mathsf{cod}^{m - p}(\beta)$. The composition $\alpha \circ_{m - 1} \beta$ is the composition in the category where $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are defined, but we can compose in lower categories as well. For example, if $F, G, H: \mathbb C \to \mathbb D$ are functors and $\eta : G \Rightarrow H$ and and $\epsilon : F \Rightarrow G$ are natural transformations then $\eta \circ \epsilon$ is a defined as the composition in the functor category $\hom(\mathbb C, \mathbb D)$. But given $F', G' : \mathbb E \to \mathbb C$ and $\delta : F' \Rightarrow G'$, we can compose $\eta$ and $\delta$ in $\mathbf{Cat}$ horizontally, i.e., $\eta \circ_{h} \delta$ is an arrow in $\hom(\mathbb E, \mathbb D)$ such that $(\eta \circ_h \delta)_X \triangleq \eta_{G'X} \circ \delta_X$ for $X \in \mathsf{obj}(\mathbb E)$.
  * In strict $n$-Category, the coherence properties you want to hold for all of these forms of composition hold up to equality, whereas in a weak $n$-category, the equivalences hold up to higher arrows. For example, in a strict $2$-category, $(f \circ g) \circ h = f \circ (g \circ h)$ for any $1$-cells $f$, $g$, and $h$, whereas in a bicategory (one notion of a weak $2$-category), we have $2$-cell isomorphisms $\eta_{f, g, h} : (f \circ g) \circ h \to f \circ (g \circ h)$.
  * In the context of homotopy type theory, for paths $r : a_1 =_A a_2$ and $q : a_2 =_A a_3$ and $p : a_3 =_A a_4$, we don't say that $(p \circ r) \circ s = p \circ (r \circ s)$ (where $\circ$ here is concatenation of paths) in the sense that they are the same arrows in the groupoid on $A$, but rather that there is a path $\alpha : (p \circ r) \circ s =_{a_1 =_A a_4} p \circ (r \circ s)$. This is essentially the $2$-cell isomorphism mentioned above cast in this setting.
  * Went through the basic properties of symmetry and transitivity of this chapter. Skye noted that even though we've said that we can't assume all equality objects are $\mathsf{refl}_a$, all proofs of the basic properties are by path induction. I think this is actually somewhat important. It means that the homotopy interpretation of equality is consistent with and essentially falls out of the standard interpretation of equality. This is why we can verify things in Agda without using a special library for HoTT, we just have to turn of the $K$-axiom.
  * Justin noted that if we turn on $K$-axiom, everything we do in HoTT becomes trivial. Similar to this, we looked at a dependence in the proof of the Eckmann-Hilton theorem on the definition of whiskering used. If you define whiskering in terms of path induction, you don't have enough control over the paths to prove Eckmann-Hilton. But it is possible to prove that the two different proofs of whiskering are equal at the "next" level. There was a short discussion on why we would want this. I'm honestly still not totally sure, it's kind of why I wanted to do the reading group. I continue to point to the fact that this allows us to define types with particular groupoid structure (like the fundamental group of the circle) which could make doing calculations in those fundamental groups more convenient in light of being synthetic instead of analytic. But I don't really have a good command at this point of that sort of work.
  * Kartik pointed out an article (now on the Slack channel) providing some historical context and intuition for the $K$-axiom and univalence.
* *2.2: Functions are functors*
  * We did not get to this, it's short so we'll see it next week

